# White Paper on Virtual Reality
## Author: Arthy M
# Summary
## Executive summary
Virtual Reality (VR) is a new experience that creates unusual closeness and maximum immersion. This technology facilitates immersive learning environments that are not usually accessible to the students. The competencies generated by students from VR include spatial visualization, innovative thinking, problem-solving, critical thinking, and empathy.

-*CEO,*
*XYZ VR technologies for education*
## Expert Summary
Virtual Reality (VR) uses computer technology to create a simulated environment. Unlike traditional user interfaces, VR places the user inside an experience. By simulating as many senses as possible such as vision, hearing, touch, even smell the computer is transformed into a gatekeeper to this artificial world.

-*Deputy General Manager,
XYZ VR technologies for education*
## User Summary
Imagine you put on futuristic glasses and all of a sudden you control a spaceship, sitting in the stadium of your favorite soccer team, or dive into the underwater world, you become part of the virtual world and immersed within these environments, Virtual Reality makes the impossible to possible.

-*User,
ABC VR app*
# Foreword
This white paper is intended for people who wish to know more about the concepts of Virtual Reality (VR). The author has explained briefly about the evolution, characteristics, and application of VR. And the paper details more on the application of VR in the field of education and it’s futuristic approach.
# Preface
Virtual Reality (VR) is an emerging field developed by the union of technologies and it is used to visualize and interact with the virtual atmosphere.  The virtual world is computer generated surrounds the user by involving one or more senses through the appropriate system. It has great importance in transforming and upgrading the core components, extensive smart devices, network transmission devices, cloud computing devices, telecom services, and software and industry information services. 
In this white paper, VR is discussed in terms of its evolution, its differences with Augmented Reality (AR), general applications, application in education, pros and cons of VR in education and the futuristic approach.
# Acknowledgments
This paper was created under the guidance of **Ms Divya Priyadharshini Mohan and IIM Skills Pvt Limited.** During the preparation I have gained knowledge from the following research papers: Virtual Reality/Augmented Reality white paper, The potentials and trends of Virtual Reality in education, Application of Virtual Reality for Enhanced Learning, Military training and sports, Virtual Reality white paper by Sensolligent.
Due to the constraints with time and knowledge there may be some mistakes in this paper. Please feel free to correct me anytime. 
# Table of Contents
1 Introduction
      1.1 Evolution of VR

